Add ttp dev doc (#44)
facebookincubator/ForgeArmory: docs/ttp-dev.md

Reviewer: My goodness this was soooooo helpful. Thank you for making this!

Author: Yay! and thank _you_ for the new TTP!

# TTP Development

> This document introduces concepts to help developers create their own TTPs for use in TTPForge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document introduces concepts to help developers 
create their own TTPs for use in TTPForge.
```

## TTP Anatomy

> ForgeArmory TTPs are designed to be consumed by  [TTPForge](https://github.com/facebookincubator/TTPForge), which provides an interface to execute TTPs across various targets and mediums. Each ForgeArmory TTP consists of metadata, optional argument declarations, and steps, which define the TTP implementation logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ForgeArmory TTPs are designed to be consumed by [TTPForge](https://github.com/facebookincubator/TTPForge), which provides an interface to execute TTPs across various targets and mediums. Each ForgeArmory TTP consists of metadata, optional argument declarations, and steps, which define the TTP implementation logic.
```

> ForgeArmory TTPs are designed to be consumed by  [TTPForge](https://github.com/facebookincubator/TTPForge), which provides an interface to execute TTPs across various targets and mediums. Each ForgeArmory TTP consists of metadata, optional argument declarations, and steps, which define the TTP implementation logic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ForgeArmory TTPs are designed to be consumed by  [TTPForge](https://github.com/facebookincubator/TTPForge), 
which provides an interface to execute TTPs across various targets and mediums. 
Each ForgeArmory TTP consists of metadata and optional argument declarations. 
The steps define the TTP implementation logic.
```

### Metadata

> TTP metadata must include the name of the TTP and a description of that TTPs behavior. MITRE ATT&CK IDs are optional but recommended. If the TTP cannot be mapped to MITRE ATT&CK then the `mitre` mapping and it's child mappings should be omitted. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TTP metadata must include the name of the TTP and a description of that TTP's 
behavior. MITRE ATT&CK IDs are optional but recommended. If the TTP cannot be 
mapped to MITRE ATT&CK then the `mitre` mapping and its child mappings should be 
omitted.
```

An example of TTP metadata is shown below.

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

---
name: Disable system security updates
description: |
  This TTP disables the automatic installation of macOS security updates.
mitre:
  tactics:
    - T0005 Defense Evasion
  techniques:
    - T1562 Impair Defenses
  subtechniques:
    - "T1562.001 Impair Defenses: Disable or Modify Tools"

```

### Arguments

> Arguments are defined after the TTP metadata. Arguments are uniquely named, may be strongly typed, and may contain default values. Using an argument in the TTP is accomplished with the argument syntax, `{{ .Args.arg_name }}`. A complete example is shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Arguments are defined after the TTP metadata. Arguments are uniquely named, 
may be strongly typed, and may contain default values. Using an argument in 
the TTP is done with the argument syntax, `{{ .Args.arg_name }}`. 
A complete example is shown below.
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

args:
  - name: a_message
  - name: a_number
    type: int
  - name: has_a_default
    default: this is the default value
steps:
  - name: print_args
    inline: |
      echo "hi! You passed the message: {{ .Args.a_message }}"
      echo "You passed the number: {{ .Args.a_number }}"
      echo "has_a_default has the value: '{{ .Args.has_a_default }}'"
```

### Steps

> Steps are uniquely named blocks of implementation logic which are executed in sequence. Steps help developers organize and manage the complexity of TTPs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Steps are uniquely named blocks of implementation logic which are executed in 
sequence. Steps help developers organize and manage the complexity of TTPs.
```

In general, steps will fall into one of the following high-level categories;

- Assessment
- Shaping
- Execution
- Cleanup

> Additionally, TTPs may be daisy-chained enabling developers to create complex sequences of TTPs. In doing so, each daisy-chained TTP is represented in the parent TTP as a sub-TTP. We'll see an example of this shortly and some recommendations on developing sub-TTPs as common building blocks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, TTPs may be daisy-chained enabling developers to create complex 
sequences of TTPs. In doing so, each daisy-chained TTP is represented in the 
parent TTP as a sub-TTP. We'll see an example of this shortly and some 
recommendations on developing sub-TTPs as common building blocks.
```

#### Assessment

> It is often necessary for a TTP to test execution requirements, such as whether a necessary environment variable is set, and bail out of the TTP if it is not. In this example, if the `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` environment variable is not set then the TTP returns exit code 1 and no further blocks are executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is often necessary for a TTP to test execution requirements, such as whether 
a necessary environment variable is set, and bail out of the TTP if it is not. 
In this example, if the `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` environment variable is not set, 
the TTP returns exit code 1 and no further blocks are executed.
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

steps:
  - name: ensure-aws-creds-present
    inline: |
      set -e

      if [[ -z "${AWS_DEFAULT_REGION}" ]]; then
          echo "Error: AWS_DEFAULT_REGION must be set."
          exit 1
      fi
    

> 	<- snip ->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<- snip ->
```

Reviewer 2: Uniformity with example below

```

> When creating assessment type blocks, it's preferable to place each test in its own block rather than a single block that tests all prerequisites. This will make your TTPs much easier to maintain as they become more complex.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When creating assessment type blocks, it's preferable to place each test in its 
own block rather than a single block that tests all prerequisites. This approach
will make your TTPs much easier to maintain as they become more complex.
```

> #### Shaping

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

#### Shaping
```

Reviewer 2: Added newline to ensure markdownlint is happy

> It is often necessary for a TTP to install dependencies, stage files, or otherwise shape the target environment prior to executing the core TTP logic.  As with assessment type blocks, when creating shaping type blocks, it's preferable to place each action in its own block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is often necessary for a TTP to install dependencies, stage files, or shape 
the target environment prior to executing the core TTP logic. As with assessment
type blocks, when creating shaping type blocks, it's preferable to place each 
action in its own block.
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

<- snip ->

  - name: setup
    inline: |
      set -e

      if [[ -d "{{ .Args.eiam_path }}" ]]; then
          echo "Info: enumerate-iam already present on the current system"
      else
          git clone https://github.com/andresriancho/enumerate-iam.git {{ .Args.eiam_path }}
      fi

<- snip ->
```

#### Execution

> The execution blocks contain the core TTP logic. A single execution block may be sufficient for simple TTPs such as atomics, which contain a single procedure. For complex TTPs, the core logic should be broken up across multiple steps or sub-TTPs. In general, if the core logic implements multiple procedures or the procedure can be reasonably broken up into smaller steps, then refactoring the code into smaller steps will make it easier to maintain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The execution blocks contain the core TTP logic. A single execution block may 
be sufficient for simple TTPs such as atomics, which contain a single procedure.
For complex TTPs, the core logic should be broken up across multiple steps or 
sub-TTPs. In general, if the core logic implements multiple procedures or the 
procedure can be reasonably divided, refactoring into smaller steps will enhance
maintainability.
```

> Code that is likely to be reused in other TTPs should be placed in a sub-TTP and imported where needed. It's much easier to maintain building blocks than to change the same (reimplemented) code in multiple places. Some good candidates for sub-TTPs include assessment and shaping operations, where you're likely to check if commonly used prerequisites are available, install commonly used tools, or tamper with security controls prior to the primary execution block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Code likely to be reused in other TTPs should be placed in a sub-TTP and imported 
where needed. It's easier to maintain building blocks than to modify the same 
(reimplemented) code in multiple places. Good candidates for sub-TTPs include 
assessment and shaping operations. Here, you might check for commonly used 
prerequisites, install frequent tools, or tamper with security controls before 
the primary execution block.
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

steps:
  - name: first_sub_ttp
    ttp: examples/sub-ttps/my-sub-ttps/ttp1.yaml
  - name: second_sub_ttp
    ttp: examples/sub-ttps/my-sub-ttps/ttp2.yaml
```

#### Cleanup

> In addition to the implementation logic, each TTP must contain a `cleanup` block that reverts artifacts produced by the preceding blocks. In the event that none of your implementation blocks produce artifacts, the `cleanup` block should simply return a success log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the implementation logic, each TTP must contain a `cleanup` block 
to revert artifacts from the preceding blocks. If no implementation blocks produce 
artifacts, the `cleanup` block should just return a success log.
```

> Example with implementation block artifacts. Here we see that we're reverting the changes made in the previous steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example with implementation block artifacts: Here, we revert changes made in 
previous steps.
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

steps:
  - name: disable-updates
    inline: |
      echo -e "===> Disabling automatic installation of security updates..."
      sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.SoftwareUpdate.plist CriticalUpdateInstall -bool NO
      echo "[+] DONE!"

    cleanup:
      inline: |
        echo -e "===> Enabling automatic installation of security updates..."
        sudo defaults write /Library/Preferences/com.apple.SoftwareUpdate.plist CriticalUpdateInstall -bool YES
        echo "[+] DONE!"
```

> Example without implementation block artifacts. No changes were made to the target system and we report that in the success log.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example without implementation block artifacts: No changes were made to the 
target system. This is reported in the success log.
```

> ```text

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
```
